=== TEXT ===
Corporate Statutory Financial
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Overview Reports Statements
Board’s Report (Contd.)
Pursuant to the SECC Regulations, the Key Management Personnel of the Company as on March 31, 2024 are: are disclosed in the Report on Corporate Governance, c. t he Directors had taken proper and sufficient
which forms part of this Report. care for the maintenance of adequate accounting
S. N. NAME DESIGNATION
records in accordance with the provisions of the
1 Shri. Ashishkumar Chauhan Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer
d. Directors’ Responsibility Statement Companies Act, for safeguarding the assets of
2 Shri. Yatrik Vin Group Chief Financial Officer and Head Corporate Affairs
NSE and for preventing and detecting fraud and
Pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) read with 134(5) of
3 Shri. Sriram Krishnan Chief Business Development Officer
other irregularities;
the Companies Act, with respect to the Directors’
4 Shri. Somasundaram K S Chief Enterprise Risk Officer and Head Business Excellence
Responsibility Statement, it is hereby confirmed that:
5 Shri. Shharad Dhakkate Chief Human Resource Officer d. the Directors had prepared the annual accounts on
6 Shri. Piyush Chourasia Chief Regulatory Officer – Member Compliance, Surveillance, Member Inspection and a. in the preparation of the annual accounts, the a going concern basis;
Investigation
applicable accounting standards had been e. the Directors had laid down internal financial
7 Shri. Ankit Sharma Chief Regulatory Officer – Listing and Investor Compliance
followed along with proper explanation relating to
8 Shri. Mayur Sindhwad Chief Technology Officer – Operations controls to be followed by the Company and that
material departures, if any;
9 Shri. Viral Mody Chief Technology Officer – Applications and Development such internal financial controls are adequate and
10 Shri. Seshadri Meda Chief Information and Security Officer b. the Directors had selected such accounting were operating effectively; and
11 Shri. Sampath Manickam Chief Technology Officer – Technology Infrastructure policies and applied them consistently and made f. the Directors had devised proper systems to
12 Shri. Arvind Goyal Head – Trade Operations judgements and estimates that are reasonable
ensure compliance with the provisions of all
13 Shri. Rohit Gupte Company Secretary and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of
applicable laws and such systems are adequate
14 Shri. Krishnan N Iyer Senior Vice President – Regulatory the state of affairs of NSE at the end of the financial
and were operating effectively.
15 Smt. Renu Bhandari Vice President – Inspection year i.e., March 31, 2024, and of the profits of NSE
16 Shri. Bireshwar Chatterjee Vice President – Surveillance and Investigation
for that financial year;
17 Smt. Sonali Rajiv Karnik Vice President – Enforcement and Exchange Compliance
18 Shri. Vitthal More Senior Vice President – Product Strategy and Services
4. Board and Committees
19 Shri. Amit Bhobe Senior Vice President – Application IT Operations
20 Shri. Sanjay Kumar Sinha Senior Vice President – Business Excellence
a. Meetings of the Board
21 Dr. Tirthankar Patnaik Chief Economist
Seven meetings of the Board were held during the financial year 2023-24. Details of the meetings of the Board, are
22 Shri. Arijit Sengupta Head Marketing & Corp Communication
23 Dr. Harish Kumar Ahuja Senior Vice President – Issuer Relationships provided in the Report on Corporate Governance forming part of this Report.
24 Shri. Rakesh Tripathi Financial Controller – Finance and Accounts
25 Shri. Avishkar Naik Head – Listing Compliance, Listing Investigation, Listing approval and Delisting b. C ommittees of the Board
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, Listing Regulations, SECC Regulations and other applicable
Important Subsidiaries laws, the Board has constituted the following Committees:
S. N. NAME DESIGNATION S. N. Committees Constituted under
1 Shri. Mukesh Agarwal Managing Director - NSE Data & Analytics Limited 1 Audit Committee Companies Act and Listing Regulations
Managing Director - NSE Indices Limited 2 Stakeholders Relationship Committee Companies Act and Listing Regulations
2 Shri. Ashish Krishna Managing Director – NSE Investments Limited 3 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Companies Act, Listing Regulations, and SECC Regulations
4 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Companies Act
b. D eclaration by Independent Directors/Public • they have registered themselves with the 5 Member and Core Settlement Guarantee Fund SECC Regulations
Committee (MCSGFC)
Interest Directors Independent Director’s Database maintained by the
6 Standing Committee on Technology (SCOT) SECC Regulations
Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs; and
The Company has, inter alia, received the following
7 Regulatory Oversight Committee (ROC) SECC Regulations
declarations from all the Public Interest Directors • they have also given their annual affirmation on 8 Risk Management Committee (RMC) SECC Regulations and Listing Regulations
whereby they have confirmed that: compliance with the Code of Conduct for the Board 9 Public Interest Directors Committee In terms of SEBI Circular dated January 10, 2019
• they meet the criteria of independence as prescribed of Directors and Senior Management of the Company. 10 Investor Protection Fund Trust (IPFT) In terms of the SEBI circular dated February 23, 2017
11 Product Advisory Committee In terms of the SEBI circular dated August 7, 2019
under the provisions of the Companies Act, read with
In the opinion of the Board, all the Independent
12 Committee of PID for second review of claims In terms of the SEBI circular dated November 13, 2020
the rules made thereunder, and as stipulated under
Directors/Public Interest Directors of the Company
lodged by the claimants of the defaulter /
the Listing Regulations. There have also confirmed
possess the requisite expertise and experience expelled members
that they are not aware of any circumstance or
(including the proficiency) and are persons with 13 Committee to decide on compulsory Delisting In terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares)
situation, which exists or may be reasonably integrity. Further, they all fulfil the conditions specified Regulations, 2021
anticipated, that could impair or impact their ability to
under the Companies Act, Listing Regulations and SECC
Further, there were no instances during the financial year 2023-24, wherein the Board had not accepted recommendations
discharge their duties with an objective independent
Regulations and are independent of the management.
made by Audit Committee.
judgement and without any external influence;
c. F amiliarisation Programme for The Independent Details of the meetings of the Committees, are provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming part of this Report.
• they satisfy the “fit and proper” criteria as stipulated
Directors/Public Interest Directors
under Regulation 20 of the SECC Regulations;
The details of familiarisation programme conducted
• they have complied with the Code for Independent
for Independent Directors/Public Interest Directors
Directors prescribed under Schedule IV to the
Companies Act;
116 Integrated Annual Report 2023-24 117
=== TABLES ===
(no tables detected)
